now if you were to open up your fridge
or pantry right now what are the chances
you'd find some bottles of Sunny D in
there how about a fresh batch of
congealed salad why are these foods so
unpopular when just twenty to forty
years ago they were flying off the
grocery store shelves well let's take a
walk down memory lane and learn why
these once beloved foods disappeared
from our kitchen tables forever Bon
Appetit
counting down from number eight TV
dinners look after a long day of work
the idea of slaving in the kitchen
whipping up dinner sounds awful
that's when frozen food comes to the
rescue
well today it's not uncommon to store
veggies or pre-made pizzas in the
freezer you'd be hard-pressed to find
classic TV dinners in their TV dinners
first stepped onto the scene in the
1950s when Swanson was looking for a way
to sell their Thanksgiving food
leftovers they came up with the idea of
serving ready-made food frozen on a
convenient tray these TV dinners became
quite popular and were a quick and easy
way to serve dinner to the family
according to the Atlantic Swanson sold
around 25 million frozen meals in 1953
which was when they first started to
become popular and it changed the dinner
game forever over the next five decades
different food companies began selling
their own versions of TV dinners like
hungry mad and Lean Cuisine remember
those well some of these frozen dinners
still sit in popular supermarket
freezers today they're not anywhere near
as popular as they once were that's
because in the last 10 years or so an
emphasis on the benefits of fresh food
has swept the nation and more and more
people are opting to be health-conscious
sure they may not have been that good
for you but boy were they fun to eat in
front of the TV 7 congealed salads have
a weak stomach then you definitely don't
want a googol congealed salad recipes
congeal salads are made with gelatin
you've had jello before
if you ever ate dinner at your grandma's
house as a kid you probably tasted the
stuff once or twice gelatin was first
used in dishes back in medieval Europe
and was partly made from the collagen in
animal bones
it sounds appetizing doesn't it gelatin
became really popular during the 1950s
when the processed food industry was
thriving this new instant gelatin was
incredibly convenient since it was a
great way to use leftovers you could
literally turn any food into a congealed
salad from fruit and yogurt to meat and
vegetable mixes yeah I'm talking tomato
turkey and lettuce in a jello mall it's
really no surprise that these gelatinous
concoctions went out of style but around
the 1980s eating fresh healthy food was
becoming more popular sugar fill
congealed salad were no longer as
desirable
jell-o and other gelatin products
started being marketed more as a snack
or dessert and were considered a sweet
food exclusively however there are still
parts of the u.s. that hold congealed
salads dear even today according to
Serious Eats dot-com many communities in
Utah still feature jell-o dishes at many
of their family events and not all of
them are sweet
in 2001 Utah even named jell-o as its
official state snack number six Sunny D
it seems like orange juice has always
been a staple breakfast beverage and
there have been many different takes on
it over the years back in 1968 many kids
could be seen sipping on a cold bottle
of Sunny D also known as Sunny Delight
as part of a well-balanced breakfast and
it was anything but Sunny D tasted
super-sweet because it was primarily
made of corn syrup and contain less than
5% juice this highly processed drink was
incredibly unhealthy yet lots of people
loved the stuff in fact in 1998 the
drink became so popular in the UK that
it came in as the third most popular
drink behind Coke and Pepsi but the
juice started to get a bad rap from
organizations like the food Commission
who called the drink a con due to its
lack of nutritionists value something
their advertising campaigns didn't quite
convey this stuff was way worse for you
than regular orange juice in 1999 a
young girl in Wales started to turn a
yellow hue after drinking way too much
Sunny D this was due to an overdose on
the beta carotene the juice contain
needless to say this sweet orange juices
days in the Sun were over after so much
bad press Sunny D lost his popularity
well it's still sold in some stores in
the UK in America it has a pretty awful
reputation number five
hi-c remember finding one of these bad
boys in your lunch box back in grade
school chances are you haven't seen a
hi-c juice box in quite some time since
2001 to be exact that was the year this
drink was discontinued according to
match.com while it appeared on the scene
for a moment as a promotional drink for
the Ghostbuster reboot and in the
McDonald's soda fountains until 2017
it'll be tough to find it in stores
nowadays this drink was mostly taken off
grocery store shelves
due to its high sugar content 1 hi-c
wild cherry juice box contained a
whopping 27 grams of sugar which is more
than the American Heart Association
recommends grown women ingest in a day
and these were intended for kids
yow additionally the juice boxes
themselves were anything but
eco-friendly since one of them could
take 300 years or more to disintegrate
it seems that just like many other kids
sugary drinks of the 20th century I see
just couldn't keep up with the times
number 4 bubble tape no matter what
decade it is kids love bubble gum and
back in the late 80s and 90s bubble tape
was a fan fave this form of hubba bubba
bubble gum was super fun to eat since it
would roll out of its dispenser just
like tape so what the heck happened to
the stuff well ever since sugar-free gum
became more popular and oral health
became more of a priority this sugary
sweet gum just wasn't as desirable
anymore but don't worry if you want to
take a trip down memory lane you can
still find bubble tape at various candy
stores but don't blame me when you need
to make an emergency trip to the dentist
number 3 Ambrosius salad what foods come
to mind when you think about backyard
barbecues hot dogs potato salad corn
on the cob and broach the salad wait
what was that last one and Brosius salad
was usually found at family gatherings
back when you or your parents were
younger while families tend to have
their own unique recipes for the dish
they typically included some form of
whipped cream cream cheese jello and
bits of fruits like oranges cherries and
pineapples this sweet salad actually
came onto the scene back in the 1800s
and usually featured special sweet
treats that only appeared on special
occasions like Christmas
over time ambrosia salad became popular
in different parts of America most
notably in the south while you can still
find some families including ambrosia
salads into their Easter Christmas or
summer barbecue spread its popularity
has dwindled significantly probably
because it isn't the healthiest between
the jello whipped cream and processed
fruits this thing is practically a big
bowl of sugar number 2 Crisco back when
you were a kid your mother's kitchen
your neighbor's kitchen and certainly
most restaurant kitchens contained
Crisco a solid form of hydrogenated
vegetable oil in simpler terms it was a
big old tub of trans fat well this
sounds pretty disgusting and it is it
made its way into a lot of the foods you
love to eat this lard alternative could
be found in baked goods as well as salty
fried foods it was originally marketed
to be a healthier alternative to lard
however once people realized how bad
trans fats were for them during the 90s
Chris go stop being used as often it
hasn't been completely taken off grocery
store shelves but with so many other
cooking ingredient alternatives people
tend to steer clear of the fattening
stuff so unless you want to clog up
those arteries there's really no reason
for Crisco to come back into style
number one cottage cheese
well you can still find cottage cheese
at your local supermarket it's not as
highly regarded as it once was cut
achieves has been around for a long time
many people believe that cheese got its
name thanks to the fact that it would
often be prepared in small countryside
cottages back in the day but it wasn't
until the 1950s that cottage cheese
became incredibly popular it's very mild
in flavor and isn't super high in fat
which was appealing to people from the
50s into the 70s today though many
people seem to be favoring more
flavorful and less lumpy dairy products
like yogurt since you can find almost
any flavored yogurt Under the Sun at
your local grocery store
it's hard to want a bowl of bland
cottage cheese with a unique texture now
if you could bring back one of these
foods which one would you choose and why
tell us your answers in the comment
section don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click Subscribe stay on the bright side
[Music]
you